MGMT-600: Bare Metal Management UI: 4.5 Edition (#30656)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nodes-adding-bare-metal-host-to-cluster-using-cli.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// nodes/nodes/nodes-managing-bare-metal-nodes.adoc

[id="nodes-adding-bare-metal-host-to-cluster-using-cli_{context}"]
= Adding a bare metal host to the cluster and provisioning a bare metal node using the CLI

You can add bare metal hosts to the cluster and then provision them as bare metal nodes using the CLI.

.Prerequisites

> * Install a cluster on bare metal, and provision a new bare metal host for use in the cluster.

Reviewer: "Provision a new bare metal host for use in the cluster" is what this section is describing how to do, so it doesn't seem to be a prerequisite.

Author: Maybe the sentence is unclear - the host must be provisioned with RHOCS, BMC address, etc before we add it to the cluster as a node right?

* Install the {product-title} CLI (oc).
* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.

.Procedure

. Create a bare metal host for use in the cluster by completing the following actions:

> .. Create the following `BareMetalHost` Custom Resource (CR) that defines the `Secret` credentials and the required cluster node namespace, for example `openshift-worker`. Save the YAML in the `openshift-worker-0-3-namespace.yaml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. The example below creates a `BareMetalHost` Custom Resource (CR) and a `Secret` with the host's BMC credentials. Save the YAML into a file named something like `openshift-worker-0-3-namespace.yaml`, for example.
```

Is the `-0-3` needed?

Author: no it's not. I'll remove.

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: openshift-worker-0-3-bmc-secret
type: Opaque
data:
  username: <secret-username>
  password: <secret-password>
---
apiVersion: metal3.io/v1alpha1
kind: BareMetalHost
metadata:
  name: openshift-worker-0-3
spec:
  online: true
  bmc:
    address: <BMC address>
    credentialsName: openshift-worker-0-3-bmc-secret
    disableCertificateVerification: True
    username: <username>
    password: <password>
  bootMACAddress: <host boot MAC address>
  hardwareProfile: unknown
----

> .. Create the namespace by running the following command:

Reviewer: In a bare metal cluster I believe (?) the `openshift-machine-api` namespace will already exist. Is it accurate to say this will create the namespace? Or does this command just apply the YAML and put both CRs into that existing namespace?

Author: Yup - you are correct. will amend.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f openshift-worker-0-3-namespace.yaml -n openshift-machine-api
----
.. Check the status of the new bare metal host instance and ensure it is available in the cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get bmh -A
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
NAMESPACE               NAME                   STATE                    CONSUMER                                  ONLINE   ERROR
openshift-machine-api   openshift-master-0-0   externally provisioned   ocp-edge-cluster-0-sfljt-master-0         true
openshift-machine-api   openshift-worker-0-3   provisioned              ocp-edge-cluster-0-sfljt-worker-0-sv86d   true
----

> . Using the relevant machine set, scale the number of nodes in the cluster to include the new bare metal host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Using the relevant machine set, scale the number of machine replicas it creates so that a new machine is available to bind to the bare metal host to provision it into a node.
```

Rough, but something to this effect, which explains how this action will result in a new node.

Author: What about: 

`. Using the relevant machine set, scale the number of machine replicas to accommodate the new bare metal host and provision it as a node.`

You can add bare metal hosts to the cluster and then provision them as bare metal nodes using the CLI.

.Prerequisites

* Install a {op-system} compute machine on bare metal infrastructure for use in the cluster.
* Install the {product-title} CLI (oc).
* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.

.Procedure

. Create a bare metal host for use in the cluster by completing the following actions:
.. Create the following `BareMetalHost` Custom Resource (CR) that defines the `Secret` credentials and the required cluster node namespace, for example `openshift-worker`. Save the YAML in the `openshift-worker-namespace.yaml` file.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: openshift-worker-bmc-secret
type: Opaque
data:
  username: <secret-username>
  password: <secret-password>
---
apiVersion: metal3.io/v1alpha1
kind: BareMetalHost
metadata:
  name: openshift-worker
spec:
  online: true
  bmc:
    address: <BMC address>
    credentialsName: openshift-worker-bmc-secret
    disableCertificateVerification: True
    username: <username>
    password: <password>
  bootMACAddress: <host boot MAC address>
  hardwareProfile: unknown

>   providerSpec:

Reviewer 2: This is not a field on `BareMetalHost`. It is a [field on `Machine`](https://github.com/openshift/cluster-api-provider-baremetal/blob/master/docs/api.md#baremetalmachineproviderspec) that would be set when the user defines a `MachineSet`.

Author: removed this.

    value:
      hostSelector: <1>
        matchLabels:
          key: <host label> <2>
----

> <1> Optional. Used to restrict automatic `Machine` creation from `MachineSet` objects. When specified, `Machine` objects are created from `MachineSet` objects only when the same label exists on an unused `BareMetalHost` object.

Author: @mhrivnak Added detail about hostSelector as a supplementary note, and updated the  sample `BareMetalHost` yaml to include this field.
